---
title: "2022 Roundup"
date: 2022-12-28
---

One of the habits I started in 2022 and liked very much is to write down happy moments throughout the year.
This is a lightweight version of what some people call a 'gratitude journal'.

Looking back at what I accumulated in this note over the course of the year brings me a lot of joy. I definitely recommend trying something similar.


Below are some nuggets of wisdom I wrote down, mostly conversations, movies, books, articles.

 > [speaking of difficult decisions] sometimes, stop listening to the mind and it's rational explanation, and pay attention to what your body is saying
 >
 > -- D.

 > The moment you’re most uncomfortable is when you’re learning the most
 >
 > -- Magic Mike impersonator

 > Recognize your brain has different modes and if you pair the right mode with the right task, they can go very well together. e.g., the monkey brain likes to swing and run on the canopy, can be put to work to Get Shit Done. The wise brain just wants to absorb something interesting, etc
 >
 > -- ?

 > One of the most beneficial skills you can learn in life is how to consistently put yourself in a good position
 >
 > -- [Farnam
Street](https://fs.blog/small-steps-giant-leaps/)

 > Crypto markets are lightly regulated and brutally Darwinian, and every day the smart find exciting new ways to take money from the dumb
 >
 > -- Matt Levine, Money Stuff, Feb 3, 2022

 > Writing is a great way to refine and polish ideas. Ideas can dissolve when writing them down, rather than hanging around my head forever, untapped. If I like something, I should start by writing about it.

 > You always wanted to be in or near a city. And now suddenly you find yourself very happy to live in a rural area far away from most people. I think I know why the change of heart: you are with the right person.
 >
 > -- A.  

 > I will never find the final perfect process to do things, it will always evolve and improve

 > No kingdom was made without bloodshed
 >
 > -- (Last Kingdom)

 > "The situation has provided a cue; this cue has given the expert access information stored in memory, and the information provides the answer. Intuition is nothing more and nothing less than recognition"
 >
 > -- Herbert Simon

 > You know you have made a theoretical advance when you can no longer reconstruct why you failed for so long to see the obvious
 >
 > -- Daniel Kahneman

 > If you happen to be one of those rare people blessed or cursed -take your pick- with dependability, there are opportunities everywhere.

 > Problem surface area (mental model). To move a 100 ton cube 1m in size, I need 200 people, but not more than 10 people can actually help, because the cube is small. Explains why some transitions are a lot slower or harder than they would appear on paper.

 > Intelligent people want to be corrected, not complimented
 >
 > -- Marvin Minsky

 > If you don't schedule maintenance then your equipment will schedule it for you, usually at the least convenient time.
 >
 > -- ?

 > What is this brief life is not the pursuit of legacy?
 >
 > -- Game of Thrones (?)

 > L'avere puo essere un sintomo della mancanza di essere
 >
 > -- ?

 > Let them eat static
 >
 > -- Kahn in Star Trek, Wrath of Kahn

Special mention:
 [History of Architecture I - Jacqueline Gargus @ Ohio State](https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLaLOVNqqD-2HUsGTv_GQ3opJoPPjdM9S6)
